Workload identity support (#311)
kubernetes-sigs/azurelustre-csi-driver: docs/csi-debug.md

### Workload Identity (Dynamic Provisioning)

**Symptoms:**

- Dynamic provisioning fails with authentication errors only on clusters that have workload identity enabled
- Controller logs show token-exchange failures such as `AADSTS70021` or `AADSTS70025`
- The client ID reported in ARM authorization errors is the node (kubelet) identity, not the identity you federated

**Confirm what the controller is using:**

```sh
# The controller service account should carry the client-id annotation when WI is configured
kubectl get serviceaccount csi-azurelustre-controller-sa -n kube-system -o yaml | grep -i "azure.workload.identity"

# The controller pods should have the injected workload-identity env vars
kubectl exec -n kube-system deploy/csi-azurelustre-controller -c azurelustre -- env | grep AZURE_
```

Expect `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `AZURE_FEDERATED_TOKEN_FILE` to all be present. If `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` is missing while the other two are set, the ServiceAccount is missing its `azure.workload.identity/client-id` annotation.

Confirm which credential served the Azure token:

```sh

> kubectl logs -n kube-system deploy/csi-azurelustre-controller -c azurelustre | grep "authenticated with"

Reviewer: Nit / consistency: these two new commands reference the deployment by name (`deploy/csi-azurelustre-controller`), which only resolves when the chart is installed with `fullnameOverride=csi-azurelustre` — the deployment is otherwise named `{{ include "azurelustre.fullname" . }}-controller`. Every other command in this doc uses the release-agnostic selector `-l app=csi-azurelustre-controller`, so these will surprise anyone on a different release name.

For the `logs` command, switching to the selector form matches the rest of the file (and its `--tail=300`/`grep -i` style):

```suggestion
kubectl logs -n kube-system -l app=csi-azurelustre-controller -c azurelustre --tail=300 | grep -i "authenticated with"
```

The `kubectl exec ... deploy/csi-azurelustre-controller` line above (env-var check) has the same name assumption, but `exec` doesn't accept `-l`, so it can't use a selector directly. Suggest resolving a pod first, e.g.:

```sh
POD=$(kubectl get pod -n kube-system -l app=csi-azurelustre-controller -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
kubectl exec -n kube-system "$POD" -c azurelustre -- env | grep AZURE_
```

Author: Adopted both — the selector form for logs, and the POD=$(...) + exec pattern for the env check.

Related: since the SDK forwarding is gone (see the azurelustre.go thread), the message this step greps for no longer exists, so the command was dead as written. It now greps authenticating with and expects controller authenticating with workload identity (client ID "<client-id>"). Same fix in docs/workload-identity.md. Both commands were run verbatim against a live cluster in each identity mode to confirm they produce the documented output.

**Confirm what the controller is using:**

```sh
# The controller service account should carry the client-id annotation when WI is configured
kubectl get serviceaccount csi-azurelustre-controller-sa -n kube-system -o yaml | grep -i "azure.workload.identity"

# The controller pods should have the injected workload-identity env vars
POD=$(kubectl get pod -n kube-system -l app=csi-azurelustre-controller -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
kubectl exec -n kube-system "$POD" -c azurelustre -- env | grep AZURE_
```

Expect `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `AZURE_FEDERATED_TOKEN_FILE` to all be present. If `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` is missing while the other two are set, the ServiceAccount is missing its `azure.workload.identity/client-id` annotation.

Confirm which identity the controller authenticates with:

```sh
kubectl logs -n kube-system -l app=csi-azurelustre-controller -c azurelustre --tail=300 | grep -i "authenticating with"
# expect: controller authenticating with workload identity (client ID "<client-id>")
```

`authenticating with managed identity` means the webhook did not inject

> `AZURE_FEDERATED_TOKEN_FILE`, so the controller is using the node identity.

Reviewer: Same wording issue @csmuell raised on `docs/workload-identity.md` (https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azurelustre-csi-driver/pull/311#discussion_r3685525054), but here in `csi-debug.md` — which that thread doesn't cover, so flagging it so both docs get corrected together.

With workload identity enabled the controller is pinned to `WorkloadIdentityCredential` via `AZURE_TOKEN_CREDENTIALS` (`controller-deployment.yaml:156-157`). I checked the vendored azidentity v1.14.0: when `AZURE_TOKEN_CREDENTIALS=WorkloadIdentityCredential`, the credential chain contains **only** workload identity — there is no `ManagedIdentityCredential` in it (`default_azure_credential.go`, `selected = workloadIdentity`). So a missing `AZURE_FEDERATED_TOKEN_FILE` makes token acquisition **fail**; the controller does **not** use the node identity. Suggested reword:

```suggestion
`authenticating with managed identity` means the webhook did not inject
`AZURE_FEDERATED_TOKEN_FILE`. Because the controller is pinned to
`WorkloadIdentityCredential` via `AZURE_TOKEN_CREDENTIALS` (no managed-identity
fallback), ARM calls then fail until injection is fixed — the controller does
not use the node identity.
```

Note the observable `authenticating with managed identity` log line itself comes from `azureIdentityConfigurationMessage()`, which infers the mode from the token file rather than the pinned credential — see my separate comment on `pkg/azurelustre/azurelustre.go` for the root cause.
